**Class**: [[FINM3011 - Investments]]
**Date**: Tuesday, 29 July 2025, 11:03
**Tags**: 

---
#### Lecture
##### Calculating Returns
- "Buy-and-hold" investment
- The **holder period return** ("HPR") is a measure of the return earned over a given period. Basically just a % return of the investment.
$$HPR_t = \frac{P_t + D_t - P_{t-1}}{P_{t-1}}$$
- $P_t$ is investment value at the end of the holding period.
- $P_t-1$ is initial investment value
- $D_t$ is the investment income such as dividend

- Implicity assumes investment income is received at the end of the holding period.
- Called as "realised return" if it has happened
- Let's denote this one period return as $r$ 

Now assume we have a sample of returns over multiple $T$ periods for a single asset $(r_1, r_2, r_3,...,r_T)$.
- Average returns over time (time-series).
**Arithmetic average return**:
$$
\bar{r} = \frac{1}{T} (r_1 + r_2 + \cdots + r_T) = \frac{1}{T} \sum_{t=1}^{T} r_t
$$
**Geometric average return**:
$$
r_G = \left[ (1 + r_1)(1 + r_2) \cdots (1 + r_T) \right]^{\frac{1}{T}} - 1
$$
###### Example 1

$$
\begin{array}{|c|c|}
\hline
\text{Year} & \text{Return} \\
\hline
2018 & - \\
2019 & 5\% \\
2020 & 9\% \\
2021 & -5\% \\
\hline
\end{array}
$$
- Arithmetic average return
$$
\bar{r} = \frac{1}{3} (0.05 + 0.09 - 0.05) = 3\%
$$
- Geometric average return
$$
r_G = \left[(1 + 0.05)(1 + 0.09)(1 - 0.05)\right]^{\frac{1}{3}} - 1 = 2.8\%
$$
###### Example 2
- A more extreme example
$$
\begin{array}{|c|c|c|}
\hline
\text{Time} & \text{Value} & \text{Return} \\
\hline
0 & \$1{,}000 & - \\
1 & \$2{,}000 & 100\% \\
2 & \$1{,}000 & -50\% \\
\hline
\end{array}
$$
- Arithmetic average return
$$
= \frac{(100 - 50)}{2} = 25\%
$$
- Geometric average return
$$
= \left[(1 + 100\%) \times (1 - 50\%)\right]^{\frac{1}{2}} - 1 = 0\%
$$
- In practices (time-series):
    - Geometric average is better to evaluate past performance
    - Arithmetic average is better to make a return prediction next period
    - Will be specified clearly in exams

##### Class Assumptions
- Returns are annualised and compounded annually.
- Effective Annual Rates
- No interest rate conversions.

##### Real Return
- Purchasing power varies overtime due to inflation
- Sometimes, need to adjust return (i) in the returns
- A common measure of inflation is the growth rate of the CPI

##### Expected Return and Standard Deviation
- So far we have been calculating risks under certainty
- Return is not certain (unless it's risk free like a government bond).
- Calculating the Expected Return
$$E(r) = \sum_s Pr(s)r(s)$$
- Calculating Standard Deviation
$$ \sigma = \sqrt{\sigma^2} = \sqrt{\sum_s Pr(s)[r(s)-E(r)]^2}$$
- Where $Pr(s)$ is the probability of scenarios occuring
- $r(s)$ is the return of a given scenario

###### Example
- Each share of stock A is currently $100, and a cash dividend of $4 is paid in one year
- Stock A has the following possible outcomes over the next year:

$$
\begin{array}{|c|c|c|}

\hline

\text{Scenario} & \text{Probability} & \text{Ending price} & \text{HPR} \\

\hline

\text{Good} & 0.35 & \$140 & 44\% \\

\text{Normal} & 0.30 & \$110 & 14\% \\

\text{Bad} & 0.35 & \$80 & -16\% \\

\hline

\end{array}
$$

Expected return and standard deviation:
$$E(r) = [0.35 \times 44\%] + [0.30 \times 14\%] + [0.35 \times (-16\%)] = 14\%$$
$$\sigma^2 = [0.35 \times (44\% - 14\%)^2] + [0.30 \times (14\% - 14\%)^2] + [0.35 \times (-16\% - 14\%)^2] = 0.63$$
$$\sigma = \sqrt{\sigma^2} = 25.10\%$$
In practice, we can't observe the expectations directly, and we have to use historical data instead.

- Stock returns are (approximately) normally distributed
- Investment management is more manageable when returns can be well approximated by the normal distribution.
	- Symmetric and stable
	- Only mean and standard deviation are needed.

##### Return Distributions
- If return distributions is positively skewed, $\sigma$ will overestimate risk.
- If return distributions is negatively skewed, $\sigma$ will underestimate risk.
- If return distributions exhibits "fat tails", $\sigma$ will underestimate the likelihood of extreme gains and losses.

#### Workshop

#### Tutorial 2

##### Question 1

Use the following scenario analysis for Stocks X and Y to answer the 5 sub-questions below:

|             | Bear | Normal | Bull |
| ----------- | ---- | ------ | ---- |
| Probability | 0.2  | 0.5    | 0.3  |
| Stock X HPR | -20% | 18%    | 50%  |
| Stock Y HPR | -15% | 20%    | 10%  |

1. What are the expected return for Stocks X and Y?  
$E(r) = \sum_s Pr(s)r(s)$ 

Stock X = $[-20\% \times 20\%] + [18\% \times 50\%] + [50\% \times 30\%]= 20\%$
Stock Y = $[-15\% \times 20\%] + [20\% \times 50\%] + [10\% \times 30\%]= 10\%$

2. What are the standard deviations of returns on Stocks X and Y?  

$Var(X) = E(x^2)-E(x^2)$ 
= $0.2 \times (-20\%)^2 + 0.5 \times (18\%)^2 + 0.3 \times (50\%)^2$ = $24.22\%$ 

3. Assume that of your $10,000 portfolio, you invest $9,000 in Stock X and $1,000 in Stock Y.  
   What is the value-weighted expected rate of return on your portfolio?  

$0.9 \times 0.2 + 0.1 \times 0.1 = 19\%$ 

3. The risk-free rate during the investment period is fixed at 3%, the standard deviation of the above portfolio is 24% (we will learn that in Lecture 3). Compute the risk premium and Sharpe ratio of the above portfolio.  

$\sigma$ = $24\%$
$r_f$ = $3\%$ 
$r_{premium}$ = $19\% - 3\%$ = $16\%$ 
Portfolio - Risk Free Rate
Sharpe Ratio = $\frac {16\%}{24\%}$ = $66.67\%$ 

4. Assume the expected CPI growth rate (inflation) during the investment period is 2%, what is the expected real return of the above portfolio? (Please simply use the approximation method. Note: it will be specified clearly in exams.)

$E(r_p) - E(i)$ = $17\%$ 


where:
- $E(R_p) = 19\%$ 
- $E(i) = 2\%$ 


$\frac {1 + E(r_p)}{q+E(i)} - 1$ 

---

##### Question 2

Consider two investors with different degrees of risk aversion:  
$A_1 = 1$, $A_2 = 3$. Both of them are comparing two stocks as below:

| Stock | $E(r)$ | $\sigma$ |
|-------|--------|----------|
| X     | 15%    | 20%      |
| Y     | 20%    | 30%      |

Both investors use the utility function:

$$
U = E(r) - \dfrac{1}{2} A \sigma^2
$$

1. Compute the utility score that would be assigned by each investor to each stock.  

$A_{1_x}$ = $15\% - \frac {1}{2} \times 1 \times 20\%^2$ = $13\%$
$A_{1_y}$ = $20\% - \frac {1}{2} \times 1 \times 30\%^2$ = $15.5\%$
$A_{2_x}$ = $15\% - \frac {1}{2} \times 3 \times 20\%^2$ = $9\%$
$A_{1_y}$ = $20\% - \frac {1}{2} \times 3 \times 30\%^2$ = $6.5\%$


3. Discuss which stock is preferred by each investor.
A higher $A$ illustrates a higher risk aversion (they don't like risk).
So Investor $A_1$ doesn't mind risk, so they will take stock $A_{1_y}$ with a return of $15.5\%$.
Investor $A_2$ is more risk averse, so they will take stock $A_{2_x}$.

---

##### Question 3

This is part of a comprehensive question in the past exam. See “Comprehensive question examples”, Question 1.2.

As we learned in the class, risk-averse investors make investment decisions based on risk-return trade-off that can maximise their utility. There are a few ways to make clean energy a more attractive investment to investors. Let’s look at this idea from the perspective of utility function.

Assume the investor follows a utility function, with a degree of risk aversion $A = 2$:

$$
U = E(r) - \dfrac{1}{2} A \sigma^2
$$

Assume there are two companies: a solar energy company (Solar), and a coal mining company (Coal). Their risk-return profile is as follows:

| Company | Expected return | Standard deviation |
|---------|-----------------|--------------------|
| Solar   | 40%             | 40%               |
| Coal    | 30%             | 20%               |

To make clean energy investment (Solar) more attractive to investors, one method is more public education and media focus on clean energy, such that ethical considerations become part of the investor’s utility function. For example, the utility function becomes:

$$
U = [E(r) - \dfrac{1}{2} A \sigma^2] \times Ethic
$$

where **Ethic** is a coefficient that equals to 1.1 if the investment is made in the environment-friendly industry (Solar in this case), or 0.9 if the investment is made in the emission industry (Coal).

Please use both the original and new utility functions to evaluate the investor’s preference between these two companies.  

(Note: this is a simple example to show you how to apply the class contents to real life scenarios. The formal Ethic utility function is much more complicated than the naive Ethic utility function shown in this question.)

$A_{1}$ = $[40\% - \frac {1}{2} \times 2 \times 40\%^2] \times 1.1$ = $26.4\%$
$A_{2}$ = $[40\% - \frac {1}{2} \times 2 \times 40\%^2] \times 0.9$ = $21.6\%$

The investor will take the Solar option, as there is a higher expected return.

---

##### Question 4

Visit professor Kenneth French’s data library Website [https://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html](https://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/data_library.html) and download the monthly returns of “6 portfolios formed on Size and Book-to-Market (2×3).”  

Choose the value-weighted series for the period from January 1930 - December 2018. Split the sample in half and compute the average, standard deviation, skewness, and kurtosis for each of the six portfolios for the two halves (i.e. January 1930 - June 1974 and July 1974 - December 2018).  

Do the six split-halves statistics suggest to you that returns come from the same distributions over the entire period?

(Note: This question is not required in the exams, but related conceptual question is still possible. The main purpose of this question is to help you understand that the distribution of returns is very likely to change overtime and hence it requires more experience in practice to choose a suitable estimation time period.  

In addition, the Kenneth French’s data library is one of the most popular databases in finance research. The small practice in this question can give you some preliminary exposure to research. More details about the Fama-French models will be discussed in Lecture 6.)

Average = $E(V)$
$\sigma$ (std.dev) = risk, how far are the numbers from the average.
- The skewness
	- Whether the stock is more skewed from one side to another.
	- Which side does it learn.
- The kurtosis
	- A measure of the probability of extreme events