**Class**: [[FINM3005 - Corporate Valuation]]
**Date**: idk, idk July 2025, 15:30
**Tags**: 

---
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gLULdxrS-CU&t=68s

---
#### Lecture 1
##### Net Present Value (NPV)
- General term referring to discounted value for stream of cash flows.
- **Objective**: Estimate cash flows available to providers of capital, and discount at the return required by those providers.

To meet this objective, you need:
1. Forecast of cash flows (may arise from a company model)
2. Cost of capital estimate

Various approaches exist based on the same principle, but employing different structure and terminology. Key points of differentiation:
1. **Perspective**: total enterprise vs equity holders
2. **Treatment** of tax shield on debt: discount rate vs cash flows
3. **Discount rate**: $WACC$ vs $K_{eU}$ vs $K_{eL}$ (reflects above 2 points)
4. **Capital structure assumption**: target (static) vs variable
5. **Presentation**: cash flows vs capital investment + economic profit.

##### NPV Valuation Methods
1. Enterprise DCF 
	1. Measures: Free Cash Flow
	2. Discount Factor: WACC
	3. Assessment: Works best for projects, business units, and companies that manager their capital structure to a target level.
2. Economic profit
	1. Measures: EP (plus invested capital)
	2. Discount Factor: WACC
	3. Assessment: Explicity highlights when a company creates value
3. Adjusted present value
	1. Measures: FCF + Interest Tax Shield
	2. Discount Factor: Unlevered cost of equity $k_{eU}$
	3. Assessment: Highlights changing capital structure more easily than WACC-based models.
4. Capital cash flow


- Discounted Cash Flow (DCF)
	- Another term for NPV
	- Sometimes used to refer to enterprise DCF model of company valuation.
- Free cash flow (FCF)
	- Cash flows available for distribution to providers of capital
	- Mostly used in total enterprise context
- Economic Profit (EP)
	- Returns, profits, or cash flows in excess of that required to meet cost of capital.
	- Also know by other terms such as:
		1. Economic value added
		2. Shareholder value analysis
		3. Excess return on capital / excess profit.


