**Class**: [[FINM3005 - Corporate Valuation|FINM3005 - Corporate Valuation]]
**Date**: Thursday, 24-07-2025
**Tags**: 

---
##### What is Value?
- **Rule 1**
	- Value = net present value of future cash flows
- **Rule 2**
	- All valuation methods ultimately come back to Rule 1
	- Valuation methods are only valid as they are somehow linked to the net present value of future cash flows.
##### Valuation Approaches
1. Multiple-based valuation: Capitalisation of near-term earnings or cash flow (E.G., PE)
2. Asset-based valuations (adding up individual company assets)
3. Net present value (or discounted cash flow) techniques

**General comments**:
- Each approach has strengths and weaknesses
- Arguments for a composite of valuation indicators
- Why does the course start with DCF?
	- This is the method that is most closely linked to **Rule 1**.

##### A way of thinking about company value
1. A company generates an (**uncertain**) stream of cash flows from its **existing operations**. The value of such operations is the NPV of these cash flows.
	- If a company can get more net cash flow out of its existing operations, the company will be worth more.
	- Need to account for cash reinvested to maintain operations.
	- If the cost of capital falls, the business is also worth more.
2. Additional value is created if the company can invest in new projects earning above the cost of capital.
	- 'True' growth stocks have access to such opportunities.
		- Young companies get value from the additional value that **could** be created.
		- **Amazon** had negative cash flows, but there is potential additional cash flows. These companies are called 'Growth Stocks'
	- Investments that earn below cost of capital will destroy value, regardless of what happens to top-line sales growth.

---
#### Tutorial 1
Tutors name - Yasvira Rizki
Tutors email - yasvira.rizki@anu.edu.au

##### Study Tips
- Tutorial questions & sample/past exam paper for prep Final Exam
- Start the assignment early
- Watch or come to the workshop.
##### Week 1 review
- **Value** = net present value of future cash flows
- 3 valuation approaches
	1. Multiple-based valuations
	2. Asset-based valuations
	3. Discounted cash flows
- $Growth rate = Investment rate \times ROIC$
	- $ROIC$ = return on invested capital
	- Balance growth and ROIC to create firm value
- Cash flow = Earnings $\times (1 - \frac{growth}{roic})$
	- Higher $ROIC$, higher cash flow
- Value creation by type of growth:
	1. New product to market
	2. Expand existing market
	3. Increase share in growing market
	4. Compete for share in a stable market (for more market share)
	5. Acquire new businesses
- $ROIC > WACC \implies create value$ 
- $ROIC < WACC \implies destroy value$ 
- $WACC$ = Weight Average Cost of Capital

##### Tutorial Questions (Chapter 2?)
**Question 2**: Why is maximising current share price not equivalent to maximising long-term value?
**Answer**: Asymmetric information between managers and shareholders.
- Managers know more than shareholders about the firm's prospects and choices that have been or will be made with respect to firm operations.
- E.G., managers could slash crucial marketing and R&D expenses and claim that they are being more efficient (-> to boost current share price). Investors won't be able to tell with publically available information that this could be problematic for long-term value creation.
- The disparity in information between managers and shareholders can lead to differences in the stock price in the short term versus long term.
**Question 3**: When managers and board of directors evaluation firm performance, how mught focusing exclusively on corporate earnings stray them away?
**Answer**:
- Exclusively focusing on corporate earnings neglects one of the two key components of long-term value creation: generating a return on capital that is greater than a firm's cost of cpital.
- Two key components of long-term value creation:
	- Cash flows from existing operation
	- $ROIC > WACC$
**Question 4**:
-
**Question 5**:
-
**Question 6**: If growth is a s