**Class**: [[FINM3005 - Corporate Valuation]]
**Date**: 22 August 2025, 15:30
**Tags**: 

---
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gLULdxrS-CU&t=68s

---
### Lecture 1

#### Discounting
> Would you rather receive $300 today, or $100 every year for three years?

You would rather have $300 today, as you can invest it with a risk-free asset, and receive > 300 at year 3.
- The option to spend money now / today has value, which is apart of the interest rate.
- Any return talked about has two parts
	1. Time value of money
		- If the asset is risk free, there is still a risk of not spending the money now.
	2. Risk premium
		- The CAPM model can illustrate the risk of repayment.


#### Net Present Value (NPV)
- General term referring to discounted value for stream of cash flows.
- **Objective** (applies to all NPV models): Estimate cash flows available to providers of capital, and discount at the return required by those providers.

To meet this objective, you need:
1. Estimate the cash flows (may arise from a company model)
2. You need to discount those cash flows at the desired terms.
3. Estimate the cost of capital

Various approaches exist based on the same principle, but employing different structure and terminology. Key points of differentiation:
1. **Perspective**: total enterprise vs equity holders
2. **Treatment** of tax shield on debt: discount rate vs cash flows
3. **Discount rate**: $WACC$ vs $K_{eU}$ vs $K_{eL}$ (reflects above 2 points)
4. **Capital structure assumption**: target (static) vs variable
5. **Presentation**: cash flows vs capital investment + economic profit.

