**Class**: [[COMP1600 - Theoretical Computer Science]]
**Date**: Monday, 28 July 2025, 20:37
**Tags**: #predicate_logic

---
#### Lecture 1
##### Variable Assignment
- We don't actually need all of the clauses. Some of them can be derived from others.
> **Example**
- $True$, then holds (regardless of $\sigma$)
- $p \vee q$, then it holds if $p$ is $true$ under $\sigma$ or $q$ is $true$ under $\sigma$
- $\neg p$, then it holds if $p$ is $false$ under $\sigma$

- $false$ - this is the same as $\neg True$
- $p \land q$ - this is the same as $\neg (\neg p \vee \neg q)$
- $p \implies q$ - this is the same as $\neg p \land q$

##### Expressive Completeness
A set $S$ of logical connectives is **expressively complete** if all Boolean functions can be defined using connectives in $S$.
- ($\land, \vee, \neg, \implies, True, False$) this is the base set with most of the functions, and it's expressively complete.
- ($\vee, \neg, True$) is expressively complete.
	- We can prove something like $\land$ with the formula
	- $\land = \neg (\neg p \vee \neg q)$ 
-  ($\land, \neg, True$) is expressively complete.

| p   | q   | $\neg p$ | $\neg q$ | $\neg p \vee \neg q$ | $\neg (\neg p \vee \neg q)$ | $p \land q$ |
| --- | --- | -------- | -------- | -------------------- | --------------------------- | ----------- |
| T   | T   | F        | F        | F                    | T                           | T           |
| T   | F   | F        | T        | T                    | F                           | F           |
| F   | T   | T        | F        | T                    | F                           | F           |
| F   | F   | T        | T        | T                    | F                           | F           |
- ($\vee, \neg)$ is not expressively complete.
- ($\land, True$) is not expressively complete.

##### Universal Quantifier
- The universal quantifier $\forall$ means for all.
###### Examples
- Let $D$ be the set {$1,2,3,4$}.
- Is the following statement true?
$$\forall x \epsilon D.X^2 \geq x$$
- This statement reads for all $x$ in the set $D$, $x^2$ is greater then or equal to $x$, which we know is true.

##### Proof by Counterexample
$$\forall \mathbb{R} \epsilon D.X^2 \geq x$$
The statement above states that for all real numbers, if you square it, it will be greater than the initial value. In order to prove is this incorrect, we can find a single example where it doesn't hold. We can test random values, such as 5, which = 25, so that's true. We could try 0, which is also true, and then we can try -1, which is 1, so this doesn't hold.

###### Examples
Let $S$ be the set {$2,3,4,5$}. Is the following statement true?
$$ \exists N \in  S \;| \;n^2=n$$
- There exists a value N in the set S, such that n squared = n.
- How can we prove that it is false? We need to show that it is false for all elements in S.

> To prove that an existentially quantified statement is true, we need to find at least one case where it holds.

- If you can't find a case where it doesn't hold, then you will need to go through each example and prove that it holds.

##### Negation
- Suppose we said **All books are heavy**. What is the negation?
- It's not that all books are heavy. Therefore, **some books are not heavy**.
$$ \exists x \in S \: p(x) \equiv \neg \forall x \in S \:| \neg p(x)$$
- Now suppose we said **There is a book that is heavy**. What is the negation?
- It's not that there is a book that is heavy. Therefore, **all** books are not heavy.
$$ \forall x \in S \: p(x) \equiv \neg \exists x \in S \:| \neg p(x)$$
#### Lecture 2
##### Universal Statements
- Universal statements can be given a condition, to show that they only hold under certain conditions.
$$\forall x \in S \; | \; P(x) \implies Q(x)$$
- Example
$$\forall v \in I \; | \; V \geq 0 \implies v + v \geq v$$
- Why did we need the conditional part in order to make this property true?
> 	We need this as if we have a negative number, the condition will return false. 

##### Vacuous statements
- Suppose there is the statement: All the students in my class are high achievers.

However, what if there are no students in my class? Then the statement holds **vacuously**.

#### Lecture 3
ToDo