**Class**: [[Intro to Software Engineering]]
**Date**: 16-07-2024
**Tags**: #Agile #Scrum

---
### Agile
- Estimating Effort - How long is going to take to write a software product for project planning.
- Process Decisions
	- Tracking Bugs
	- Version Control (Git)
	- Write down requirements for a project
	- Testing
	- Status meetings
- Milestones
	- For tracking progress
	- It's common to take longer for tasks

Agile works by allowing you to make changes to a project quickly. There are lots of methods, there is no best method.
- Before Agile, you had Plan-Driven development that would exist for systems that would be around for a long time.
	- E.G., Westpac, running using some old Software in Melbourne.
	- E.G., some NZ company developing banking software, grew fast, transactions didn't go through on debit cards.
	- This is why people switched to Agile methods.
- Agile Manifesto: Finds better ways of developing software in the 90's
- Agile worked based all of there ideas around incremental development
	- Small steps, easy to change
	- A focus on features
	- Important features are prioritised and done first
	- There is a feedback loop for what to do

### Scum
- Product Backlog (features)
	- Product: The software product being developed by your team
	- Product Owner: A team member who is responsible for identifying product features. They review work done and help to test the product.
- Product Backlog
	- A to-do list of items such as bugs, features and product improvements that the Scum team have not yet completed.
	- Product Backlog Items (PBIS) 
		- Work In Progress
		- Awaiting
		- Done
- 2-4 weeks to implement a feature from backlog
	- 24 hour daily scum meetings
	- Development team: A small self-organising team of 5-8 people who are responsible for developing the product. 
- Potentially shippable product

#### Scrum Terminology
- Sprint: A short period (2-4 weeks), when a product is incrementally developed. 
- Scum: A daily team meeting where progress is reviewed and work to be done that day.
- ScrumMaster: A team coach who guides the team in the effective use of Scum.
	- Not a project manager, but a coach ("You follow this process")
- Velocity: An estimate of how much work a team can do in a single sprint. 
- Product Owner: Responsible for ensuring that the development team are always focused on the product they are building.
- Self-organising Teams: Make their own decisions and work by discussing issues and making decisions by consensus.

#### User Stories
- Specifications
	- Small: Should be able to fit on a card.
	- Concise: A list of requirements, simple, easy to understand.
		- Doesn't need all of the details
		- It's an idea
- Template:
	- As a [Role] - Who wants it?
	- I want [Function] -What is it
	- So that [Value] - Why I want it
- Epic Story: A user story that is too complicated, so it gets split up into multiple user stories.
- Testing: Should be testing available to understand when the test is done.
- E.G., As a user, I want a location map of all available scooters, so I know where the available scooters are.

#### Evaluating User Stories
- Independent
- Negotiable
	- Details can be changed, a user story should capture the idea, not the details.
- Valuable
	- Should have some utility for the consumer
- Estimable
	- Helps keep the size small
- Small
	- An idea that's two persons weeks of work
- Testable
	- When is it done. Need to test it to know when it's done.

### Sprints
- Timeboxed Sprints
	- Duration of 1-4 weeks, development stops at the end of a sprint whether or not the work has been completed.
		- Then you think again, improve, etc.
	- During a sprint, the team works on the items from the product backlog.
	- Products are delivered in a series of sprints, each sprint delivers an increment to a product.
- Sprint Planning: Work out what's going to happen during the Sprint
- Sprint Execution: The team works to implement the Sprint backlog items that has been chosen.
- Sprint Reviewing: The work done in the sprint is reviewed by the team, and they reflect on what went well and what didn't. 
- Scum: Review the Sprint, Sprint backlog, what's going on.

#### Agile Activities
- Test automation: As far as possible, product testing should be automated.
- Continuous Integration: As soon as changes are made, you try and integrate it with the app, good for testing and seeing if anything breaks.

#### Personas
- User Understanding: Understand the potential users and customers.
	- You can interview them, or use software to see what they're doing.
	- Put yourself in the mindset of the user
	- Develop stories from the users perspective
- Feature Description
	- What is the feature
	- What is the input, what is the output etc.

#### Scenarios
- A scenario on how users or a group of users will use your system.
- You learn user stories from these scenarios.
- Describes a situation where a user or group of users interacts with the system or product. It helps visualize how people will use the features and functions of the software.

- Feature Creep: When features are added without thinking about the feature. Does it add anything new?